I don't know if you remember when Elon
[music] Musk brought the Teslas to the
White House.
>> I do remember that, yes.
>> said
>> This is a different panel than I've had.
Everything's computer.
>> I don't know how old he is, 78, 90, 79
years old, whatever whatever he is. I
don't think he's the one who's like
designing the crypto projects, right?
Anthony Pompliano, welcome [music] to
Interesting Times.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. Super
excited.
>> Great. So,
I think 2025, [music]
it's fair to say, was a bull market year
for cryptocurrency. And this year is
more of a bear market.
>> Bitcoin is off to a brutal start to the
year.
>> Bitcoin has lost about a quarter of its
value.
>> We are in a crypto winter.
>> [music]
>> The value of Bitcoin dropped from about
120 K to about 70 K. But at the same
time, cryptocurrency is just
increasingly embedded in financial and
political systems.
>> The Trump administration making it
easier to include digital currencies in
your retirement accounts.
>> to be the undisputed crypto capital and
Bitcoin superpower of the world.
>> Morgan Stanley just said they're set to
become the first Wall Street bank
[music] to launch a Bitcoin tracking
exchange-traded fund, an ETF. As we
record this, the Islamic Republic of
Iran is demanding to be paid in crypto
for the right to transit the Strait of
Hormuz. So, those are some of the things
I want to talk about, but I want to
start in an extremely basic way. I often
come into these interviews with some
pretty strong views or preconceptions.
And in the case of crypto,
I'm really a genuine agnostic. And I
imagine at least some of our viewers and
listeners are as well. So, I'm going to
ask what seem like incredibly naive
questions to start with, and then we can
get more complicated. So,
Anthony, what is cryptocurrency and why
do we need it?
>> Well, I usually think about these assets
as um, it's all finance and it's a very
important part, right? If you go back
and look at history, every single asset
in the world was physical. So, you had a
physical stock certificate, you had
physical bonds. You know, if you bought
Apple stock, they literally sent you a
physical stock certificate that you
would put in like a filing cabinet.
>> Um,
>> If you wanted to take down the Nakatomi
Tower in Die Hard, you were going to get
the safe to get the bearer bonds.
>> the deed to your home was physical,
right? And so, at some point, there were
some very smart people who said, "You
know what? Maybe actually having these
physical things you need to protect from
everything from theft to fire, etc. is
not a good idea. Let's make it a little
bit more efficient." They created
electronic assets. And these electronic
assets really revolutionized the
financial industry and allowed for a lot
more people to get access. But, at the
same time, it also allowed for a lot
more assets to become available. So, if
you think of crypto in general, there's
kind of two different types of assets.
There are assets that end up being just
like the traditional assets of stocks,
bonds, currencies, and commodities, but
rather than in electronic form, they're
going to be digital now. You'll just buy
those assets the same way you do today.
You won't even know that there's a
difference and basically all of the
value is going to accrue to big
financial institutions who have better
efficiencies and and kind of lower cost.
But, there are some crypto-native
assets, things like Bitcoin, where
people are having to understand them,
learn about them, and then evaluate what
is Bitcoin? Do I want this in my
portfolio? What does it provide to me
that I can't get in a traditional asset?
And so, if you go and you look at why is
Bitcoin itself valuable, there's
basically one big idea that I think an
entire entire generation of people have
finally come to, uh, um, kind of peace
with, which is that the United States
government and governments around the
world have to print more money. That is
a fundamental, you know, a structural
belief that people now have. And COVID
was a part of that. I think that there
were people who started to look after
the global financial crisis as part of
that. But, once you realize that
>> And that's, just to pause,
that's because the United States
government and governments around the
world, rich governments, governments in
developed countries, just owe a lot of
money um that they are unlikely to
simply raise taxes to pay for, meaning
in terms of pensions, entitlements,
health care, and so on. Is that is that
>> It's a huge part of it. Um we spend more
than we take in. So, if you look at
these kind of national deficits,
um the only way that we can do that is
we can also print money.
The problem for the average American is
if we create more money, it makes the
dollars that you own less valuable. Now,
if you think of this, the reason why
there are not people in the street
protesting it is because half the
country is suffering under this, half
the country is benefiting from this. And
so, I always say that there's a lot of
folks who did they get very upset about,
you know, people who have gotten wealthy
and investors and all this kind of
stuff.
It's really a knowledge gap more than
anything else. The wealth inequality gap
in America really just comes down to a
knowledge gap. And what I mean by that
is
there's a about half of the country who
understands if you hold cash, it loses
value every single year. Instead, if you
convert that cash into assets, whether
it is stocks, real estate, or
cryptocurrency, or whatever,
over time, they will go up because the
dollar is going down. And if you look at
some of the stats, I mean, it's pretty
compelling.
The 50% of Americans who hold cash in
their bank account, if you go and you
look since 2020, the US dollar can only
buy 70 cents worth of goods and
services.
That means that you had to drive immense
increase in your wages and in your
income, or you had to be an excellent
trader in the market, right? You had to
be an excellent investor. But if you
just held cash,
you're poorer today than you were in
2020. So, what do you do?
>> So, what do you do? You you acquire
cryptocurrency.
>> I don't think that the answer is only
>> explain basically
without making it a kind of universal
case,
the idea is that cryptocurrency holds
value under inflationary conditions in a
way that just keeping dollars in a bank
account or as, you know, at least one of
my friends does in shoe boxes under
their under their mattress,
it that that doesn't hold value in the
same way. Okay, why? What is Bitcoin?
Let's let's say that and then explain
why what it is enables it to hold value.
>> Bitcoin is ultimately just a currency,
right? So, in your life you if you're in
the United States, you use dollars. You
I always joke that you get paid in
dollars, you save in dollars, you pay
your taxes in dollars, you invest in
dol- with dollars, etc.
Dollars [snorts] to you are the only
currency that matters. You probably
don't have dollars and yen and yuan and
euro and pesos and all these you just
have one currency. Bitcoin is the exact
same thing. It has a couple of details
that were custom
built to make Bitcoin valuable, but
ultimately it is just a currency. And
so, what does that mean? It's a asset
that you can hold and store value in.
It's an asset that you can use to buy
things and it is an asset that some
people will even price goods and
services, meaning they will say, "Hey, I
want to sell this home or I want to sell
this, you know, table I built and I want
to get paid in Bitcoin, so it's one
Bitcoin." Instead of saying it is, you
know, $70,000.
The reason why that that's important is
we are entering this digital world. And
so, Bitcoin in particular is basically a
currency that is backed by a network of
computers that are outside of the
system. So, if you go and you look at
gold, maybe it's a a great example. Gold
is valuable basically for two reasons.
It has sound money principles, which
means that no one can create more and no
one is able to actually pull it into the
system.
>> True. Just just to stipulate, it seems
that a third source of value for gold is
that it has physical existence and is
associated in people's minds with
beauty, jewelry, wealth, and so on,
right? Like there is there is a
component there that has a very sort of
physicalized reality, right?
>> So, yes and no. There's a lot of metals
in the world. The reason why gold has
value is cuz it's very scarce.
It's not 100% finite, right? We keep
finding more gold deposits. We keep
digging more up out of the ground. Why
was gold the one that everyone wants to
wear around their neck? It's a sign of
wealth. It's a sign of luxury. And so,
ultimately, it is really good at storing
that value because it is so good from a
sound money principle standpoint, right?
Now, the reason why I say sound money
principles are so important is
ultimately, that is what Bitcoin is
built on. But with Bitcoin, we know that
there will only ever be 21 million.
Bitcoin is an asset that no one can
create more of, and it is outside the
system. And so, if you were to think
about putting Bitcoin and gold side by
side with each other,
Bitcoin is superior in every single way.
It is more divisible. It is more
portable. It is much, much more secure.
It is more censorship resistant, etc.
The only area where gold has any degree
of a superiority to Bitcoin is how long
it has been around. So, there's a lot of
people who say, "Hey, look, gold's been
around for thousands of years. It's not
going to go away." Whereas, something
like Bitcoin has been around for about
15 years or so. And so, the question
becomes, is this a fad? Is this
something that's just a fleeting idea?
Or does this have long-term staying
power over centuries similar to gold? I
obviously believe that it has that
staying power, but we're going to find
out.
>> Yeah. So, I will I I want to go a little
deeper into the
debates about Bitcoin's relationship to
inflation in a minute. Um but I just
want to try out
a couple of other sort of use cases,
theories of cryptocurrency, which are
linked linked to that basic idea, right?
Um but
how much of the argument for crypto as
an asset just has to do with a certain
kind of frictionless
transaction to ordinary people? Is there
a way in which there's a promise here
that you know, the ordinary person
escapes transaction fees, delays in
transmission, these kind of things.
Like, is that part of the story?
>> [snorts]
>> I think it depends on who you are. You
know, one of the things about a product
that ends up being valuable in the world
is it needs to be valuable to different
people for different reasons. So, in the
United States, most people are not
worried about not being able to go to an
ATM and pull out cash. They're not being
They're not worried about the government
censoring their transactions. They're
not worried about, you know, those types
of very authoritarian type actions
against their money.
There's a lot of countries in the world
where people are very worried about
that, right? In the United States, I
think that most people are looking at
Bitcoin for one of three reasons.
They're speculating. They believe it's
going to go up in value, and so that is
very attractive to them, no different
than any other financial asset. Two is
they're very worried about inflation.
They believe that Bitcoin is one of many
solutions that could potentially
insulate them. Or three is they like the
fact that it's outside the government.
They like the fact that it's outside of
the financial system, and they feel like
if there is some sort of doomsday
scenario, they're able to hold this
asset. They're able to control it, have
self-sovereignty, and they feel like
that has value that may not just be
economic, but also could be from a
resilient standpoint.
Those are US-centric viewpoints,
problems, et cetera. You can go around
the world, though, and I I've gone and
spoken to thousands of people around the
world about this.
Many people, they don't care what the
economic speculation potential is. What
they really care about is, "Hey, I live
in a country that is engaged in a war,
and I want to leave.
I can't bring my house. I can't bring my
gold. I can't bring these assets. I need
to get it out of the country. How do I
do that?" Bitcoin becomes very
interesting.
You mentioned Iran. And one of the
things I think is very interesting that
happened recently is on the same day,
Iran asked to be paid the toll in the
Strait of Hormuz in Bitcoin, which
basically means that there's a bunch of
countries that don't trust each other.
And so, they're saying, "Hey, I want to
get paid in an asset that is not
dependent on the monetary policy of any
other country." Okay, so it's this
neutral,
uh, decentralized, kind of non-sovereign
asset.
Those people in Iran who are asking to
get paid in Bitcoin, I think a lot of
people in the Western world would say,
"That's not really maybe the best
spokesperson for Bitcoin." Right, we
don't want to be saying, "Hey, the
Iranians like Bitcoin, so you know, this
is a great invention."
>> Right. On the same day though, Morgan
Stanley launched their Bitcoin ETF.
And so, if you look at those two as kind
of polar opposites,
you have what many people would consider
United States adversaries, you know,
funders of terrorists, etc., who are
saying, "Hey, Bitcoin is valuable to
us."
And then you have one of the oldest
investment banks on Wall Street trying
to package it up and sell it to their
clients as well.
That's what we talk about when Bitcoin
is different things to different people.
One is a speculative use case, and one
is frankly a use case out of necessity
in a geopolitical situation where
countries don't trust each other.
>> But aren't those two uses connected to
each other in the sense that and
correct me if I'm wrong, but the basic
idea behind a crypto-based ETF would be
that in investing in this ETF, you are
investing in the future value of
cryptocurrency, right? Future value of
cryptocurrency will go up by a lot
the more, you know, rogue actors in the
world and including not just
um rogue states like Iran, but also you
know, smugglers, drug dealers, whatever
parade of horribles you want to use,
right? The more they're using crypto,
the more they're using Bitcoin, the more
valuable
Morgan Stanley's ETF becomes, right? So,
it's
>> Well, what's interesting is the
counterfactual is that the currency of
choice for drug dealers, criminals, you
know, smugglers, terrorists around the
world is the US dollar. And what we have
found in the data is that the number of
bad actors that are using Bitcoin is
very small. The reason why Bitcoin
continues to appreciate is not because
of the that adoption by those bad
actors, but instead the monetary policy
is this is designed in a way where it
continues to become more and more
valuable over time because it's a fixed
supply asset. And so when you start to
view it from that perspective, now you
get into a scarcity conversation. You
get into a what is the market price of
an asset if lots of capital wants to
move into it and that begs the question,
well why would they want to do that? And
this is where the non-sovereign kind of
neutral asset becomes really important.
>> But isn't there a way in which I mean
you you said earlier, right? That you
know, gold is valuable because it's
scarce. We can debate whether it's a
beauty matters, too. But it's valuable
because it's scarce, right? You can't
make more of it. Okay, you can't make
more of Bitcoin. You can make more of
other cryptocurrencies that are, you
know, based on networks of computers
outside the system and there is a
proliferation of
>> scams
>> of scam Well, are they So when I
you know,
I I bought Bitcoin as a speculative
asset, you know, probably four or five
years ago briefly when a lot of naive
investors bought some Bitcoin. And I
think at the time I had someone who
presented themselves as slightly wiser
than me and said, well, if you're buying
Bitcoin, you need to buy Ethereum, too,
right? So Ethereum is a rival
cryptocurrency to Bitcoin. And there are
multiple multiple rivals, right? What
Explain why
if this is, you know,
a good system for sort of locking in
value
as a hedge against inflation,
why isn't that just undermined by the
ability of
other you know, other cryptocurrencies
to come along and compete with Bitcoin
like gold 2.0 and 3.0 and so on in the
physical world?
>> I think that Bitcoin is the only asset
that is trying to do
this inflation hedge, this kind of chaos
uncertainty hedge that the Bitcoin we're
talking about. These other assets
basically have taken the idea of
Bitcoin, right? Kind of a
blockchain, the decentralization, etc.
And they basically have created other
blockchains to try to do different
things. And I always say it's the
difference between the comparing the US
dollar, a barrel of oil, and Amazon
stock. Right? They're all assets, but
they all exist in some sort of
electronic form in the traditional
financial system, but you don't confuse
dollars and barrels of oil. They have
fundamentally different use cases.
>> So, give me just because I invested in
it, give me what is the difference
between Bitcoin and Ethereum?
>> Bitcoin's entire purpose is to be
electronic currency, right? To to be a
digital store of value that you can use
to either protect your economic value or
you can use to purchase things from
other people. So, think of it no
different than the US dollar, it's just
a digital version of that. Ethereum
wanted to do a bunch of things where
they wanted to take that idea and then
make it so that it was programmable. We
want to go and we want to build things
on top of it. But Bitcoin isn't built
for that, right? It was very difficult
to do that. And so, there's this
gentleman Vitalik Buterin who said,
"Hey, I'm going to actually take this
idea and I'm going to change it. I'm
going to make, you know, evolutions to
it and I'm going to go create another
blockchain, and this one's going to be
able to do this kind of computational
work that Bitcoin can't do." Usually
when something gets created,
the first mover does not stay the first
mover, right? If you think of search
engines or social networks or this
stuff, it's usually somebody who's able
to learn from some of the first attempts
and then go and and build this.
Bitcoin has been able to stay as the
number one because it has a network
effect, but also because it is going
after this problem of how do I buy
something in the digital world that will
protect my economic value? And I think
that that difference is really, really
important.
>> But why
doesn't someone then just try and do
the the Bitcoin thing? But then if
they've tried and and it hasn't worked,
isn't that just evidence that it is sort
of
a psychological first mover effect? It
was just Bitcoin got there first and so
everyone is psychologically locked into
it. So, even if another cryptocurrency
comes along that has exactly the same
qualities as Bitcoin should hold value
just as well, it doesn't because
no one wants to speculate in it cuz
you know, it's not Bitcoin.
>> Well, I think that there's a couple of
different iterations as you evaluate
Bitcoin, right? There's the technical
components, there's definitely the
network effect, and then there is a
psychological or you can think of this
is like a global brand, right?
>> Right.
>> So, if you look at going back about 40
years or so before Bitcoin was created,
there were multiple attempts to create a
digital currency. There's There's a
group called the Cypherpunks and they
were very into how do we create some
digital currency that we can use that's
outside the system, kind of what Bitcoin
eventually became.
And attempt after attempt after attempt,
what they realized was there were
technical
impurities or technical issues with
those attempts. Bitcoin was the first
one that finally I think people
generally agreed, okay, it has solved
all of the technical challenges to this
point.
Now, just because you are technically
superior does not mean you're actually
going to get adoption.
I think of Bitcoin's maybe most
important aspect is it was created and
put into the world at a time when no one
cared about crypto. Those early years of
Bitcoin were incredibly important
because you had organic growth of people
who really bought into what is Bitcoin.
They weren't being paid to be there. In
many cases, they were actually losing
money because they were, you know,
spending computational power or they're
wasting their time or or whatever.
But as this idea of Bitcoin started to
grow and adoption grew, you had this
kind of very big groundswell. When
technology products get enough of a
network effect, they are very very hard
to break. And I think that Bitcoin,
because it is money,
and the ability for me to send it to
you, you send it to me, me to hold it,
the mining, all this stuff creates this
network effect that I never foresee a
world where there will be another asset
that can overtake Bitcoin in this use
case. And so, it's pretty much the
world's got one shot. If Bitcoin is
successful, amazing. If it is not
successful, I do not think that we will
get a digital currency that is outside
the system.
And I think that's why I'm so focused
on, hey, I'd love for this to be
successful. So, let All right, so let's
talk about where we are now, right? Um
so,
we've we've been going through and sort
of elaborating on
the ways in which Bitcoin has succeeded,
right? It is something that corporations
are investing in. It is something that,
you know, governments are using. It's a
real part of the landscape. At the same
time, right? It has behaved much more
like a speculative asset than like a
safe store of investment that has a
stability that the US dollar lacks,
right? And I mentioned earlier the fact
that you can go in a very brief span of
time from one Bitcoin being worth
120,000 to one Bitcoin being worth
70,000,
that, you know, doesn't sound like a
great deal as an alternative to the slow
depreciation of the dollar. It sounds
like something that you invest in if you
are interested in sort of playing around
with volatility and hoping to get
returns. So, if Bitcoin is supposed to
do this I'm supposed to play this
stabilizing role, why is it instead
leaping and dancing and swinging wildly
and most recently collapsing?
>> Because Bitcoin's alive and the other
assets are dead.
Stability is the single biggest lie in
financial markets. And even if you don't
like Bitcoin,
want to learn about Bitcoin, I do think
that there's an entire generation, I
call it the volatility generation. They
understand that you need volatility in
your portfolio in order to protect
yourself. And so, I'll give you a couple
of examples.
If you go talk to a financial advisor in
the United States of America and you ask
them, "I want to have a very safe
portfolio."
They will take your money and they will
pretty much put it in cash and
treasuries.
Those are the only two assets in
financial markets that are designed to
lose money.
So, by definition, they are not safe.
And so, now what you're starting to see
is, well,
forget for a second individuals. Let's
go and look at maybe pension funds in
America.
Most pension funds in America are
underfunded. They do not have the money
to pay. Social Security does not have
the money to pay. And so, why is that?
Well, they all pursued what we were told
was a safe, stable approach. And they
put the money in Treasuries. They put
the money in bonds or fixed income and
in these different instruments. And now
what we're learning decades later is
actually that was a horrible decision.
We did not keep up with the pace of
inflation. We do not have the money to
pay these promises. What do we do?
And so, the reason why I say that
Bitcoin is alive or volatile assets are
alive and the other ones are dead is
because if you as an investor go and put
majority of your money in those assets
and you wait, you are going to end up
like 50% of the country, which is you
fall further and further behind and you
end up on the wrong side of this
K-shaped economy.
Instead, if you look at what are the
assets that are volatile? Well, we know
Bitcoin is. We know that certain
technology stocks are, right? You just
go through this list of all these
volatile assets.
They are the best performing assets in
an investor's portfolio over long
periods of time at this point. And so,
ultimately
>> but that that is seems like a different
argument
to me than the argument that Bitcoin has
a stability of value that the you know,
that the dollar under inflationary
conditions lacks, right? Like if if
Bitcoin is behaving like a tech stock,
then
it is by definition sort of, you know, a
an an a not, you know, it's a non-stable
asset. Now, as you say, yeah, obviously
like non-stable assets can be good, but
they come with a, you know, a risk
premium, right? Like you invest in Tesla
and you, you know, aspire to have Elon
Musk's wealth go to infinity, right? And
pull and pull you along with him and
that's that's great.
But, you're also accepting a high level
of downside risk. And it seems like the
initial case that you made to me for
Bitcoin is that it shouldn't have
that kind of downside risk to the same
degree.
>> think the argument that I'm saying is
the entire financial system is
engineered around assets that have 100%
downside, zero upside.
Dollars have no upside, all downside.
Bonds have no upside, all downside. So,
those are 100% risk assets.
These other assets, yes, of course,
there is if Tesla doesn't work or
something like that. But, you're getting
paid for that risk that you're taking
because Tesla can appreciate. Now,
Bitcoin is very unique in that the
reason why people think Bitcoin is
volatile is not cuz Bitcoin itself is
volatile. One Bitcoin equals one
Bitcoin. Always has, always will. It's
actually the exchange rates where people
start to look at the volatility.
But, Bitcoin is the same Bitcoin that
it's always been. And if you were to go
back and look over 3, 5, 10 years,
anyone who was given the choice of put
your money in dollars, put your money in
real estate, put your money in Bitcoin,
you were much better off buying assets
of real estate, Bitcoin, gold, etc. than
you were putting it in dollars or
treasuries.
>> No, I I I agree with that. But, what's
not clear to me is
why I'm better off putting assets in
Bitcoin as opposed to
buying an index fund of the S&P. It just
seems more like people are going back
and forth between treating it like gold
and treating it like a tech stock. And
when the market is going up, they put
money in Tesla, and they buy a lot more
Bitcoin. And that just seems like a
fundamentally different kind of
behavior, and one that explains why
at least up till now,
the patterns, like Bitcoin has not
generally spiked in times of inflation.
It spiked in times of stock market
enthusiasm. Would you agree?
>> No.
>> Okay, tell me why that Tell me why
that's wrong.
>> So, before we get to the stock market
enthusiasm and inflation, I would say
that I always get very nervous whenever
the market assigns a consensus view that
is very black and white. If we go back
to 2020, a lot of people forget.
We had COVID. Everyone gets locked in
their home. And the government basically
steps in. And it was very scary, I
think, for a lot of investors, right?
The market had sold off significantly.
Bitcoin went down 50% in a day. There's
all these kind of problems.
And when the government stepped in and
they basically brought these monetary
bazookas and said, "Hey, we're going to
print trillions of dollars."
The Bitcoin community was probably the
single loudest group on the internet
that said, "You cannot print trillions
of dollars without getting high
inflation." Right. Now, there was two
people in the world who kicked off what
I call the Bitcoin bull run in the
finance world. That was Paul Tudor Jones
and Stanley Druckenmiller. Because they
came out in 2020, they went on national
television, they said, "You know, I'm
buying an inflation hedge basket." I
think the words that Paul Tudor Jones
said is, "And I like Bitcoin cuz I think
it's going to be the fastest horse."
And of course, that spread like wildfire
online cuz the Bitcoiners were like,
"Oh, we You know, we went and we got
real people. They They like our asset
now, right?" [laughter] Um but what it
did is it removed the career risk for
people all across Wall Street cuz, you
know, "Hey, I probably can't get fired
if I'm doing what Paul Tudor Jones and
Stanley Druckenmiller, etc., do."
But Bitcoin went from $10,000 in August
of 2020
to $60,000 in March of 2021. Inflation
did not move.
>> Right.
>> Inflation was at 2%.
We only got to I think it was 5%
inflation in June of 2021. So, people
say, "Well, why did that happen?" The
key thing that most people don't realize
about financial markets is they are
forward-looking. People do not wait for
high inflation to come and then, "Oh,
let me go buy an inflation hedge asset."
They say, "I think inflation is coming."
And they go and buy the asset in
preparation of that. And so, Bitcoin
moving was actually an alarm system
telling us high inflation is coming. And
it ended up being right.
Inflation ended up going over 9%
according to the government numbers,
probably much higher. And so, Bitcoin
continued with that, stocks went up,
real estate went up, everything kind of
carried with that inflation. But Bitcoin
was the first asset to say, "Hey, this
is going up."
Now, the reason why that becomes really
interesting is if you fast forward to
2025 last year,
Bitcoin was the asset that peaked at a
new all-time high and then began to
aggressively sell off. And I think a lot
of people said, "Why is Bitcoin going
down? Gold is going up, stocks are going
Why Why is Bitcoin going down?"
Well, now we can look at the data and
realize that we started to get these
massive deflationary forces swallowing
the US economy. Terrorists,
deportations, AI, robotics, etc. And so,
once again, Bitcoin was the first to
sell off as kind of an alarm system. And
so, when you start to see this, what you
realize is Bitcoin's price is probably
the most pure truth-teller in financial
markets. And it is the most sensitive to
changing economic conditions. And so,
when Bitcoin runs a lot, you should
immediately ask yourself, "Why is it
running? What is coming that the market
is telling me?" When it sells off a lot,
same question, "What is it telling me as
to why this is happening?"
>> So, what does that What does that mean
then for
the ordinary investor? Because it sounds
like if that if that account is correct,
then it seems like
Bitcoin, yeah, might be an extremely
useful asset for people who are
comfortable making big trades a lot,
comfortable with the idea that, you
know, you have this thing that's going
to run up and tell you that inflation is
coming and then collapse when you have a
deflationary moment.
Um
but if you're someone who is a, you
know, a sort of, you know, not not a big
investor, right, who has their finances
and is trying to, you know,
I mean,
presumably has a long-term time horizon,
but is trying to save for basic expenses
and save for college and so on.
That seems like a tougher market
to be in, right? So, is there value in
Bitcoin for
the ordinary investor or is it just an
instrument for larger,
you know, larger players in the market?
>> I believe that Bitcoin is a digital
savings account. That's probably the
best way to think about how this fits
into an ordinary American's life.
If you think in your traditional
financial environment, you have a
checking account for day-to-day
expenses. You have a savings account for
medium to long-term kind of capital that
you keep. And then you have a brokerage
account and you go and you buy stocks
and try to, you know, outperform the
market and drive a higher return.
>> [snorts]
>> In the digital world, we have now
recreated a checking account, a savings
account, a brokerage account. The
checking account are stable coins.
They're just US dollars that is now
represented in a digital form. So, no
different than Bitcoin is a digital
version of, you know, a gold. Now,
stable coins, you can use a dollar. Most
people who use stable coins, they just
see that they're using dollars. They
don't even know there's a difference on
the back end, right?
>> And the advantage there is just it's
frictionless. You can't be de-banked,
right? It's or
>> Cheaper, it's faster. There's a little
bit more self-sovereignty to it. Um, you
know, there's also some some things that
you can do from a cross-border
standpoint that it is a little bit more
efficient, et cetera. So, again, it's
just think of that as your digital
checking account. If you want to go to
the store and buy something, you can do
it with stable coins. If you want to
just hold cash, you can do that with
stable coins. And you just take
>> But you'll have no inflation protection.
You just go with the dollar.
>> Right. Okay.
Now, your savings account,
historically, what did they have you do?
You put dollars in your savings account
and went down in value. That's not very
good.
Bitcoin becomes that digital savings
account.
>> Isn't it, again, more of sort of a
a part of a sort of brokerage
portfolio? If it's your savings account,
like I use my savings account to be
prepared to do something like, you know,
you have to buy a new car. We have a
like a big, you know, some big purchase
in the home or you know, some, you know,
my my bonus is not what it was what I
hoped it was because I interviewed that
crypto guy and you know, it whatever,
right? Like
And
that savings account, if that dropped
from 120k to 70k in 6 months,
I'd be pretty upset in a way that I
wouldn't if my portfolio did the same
drop because that's understood as a
long-term and more speculative
enterprise, right? I I guess I'm just I
feel like there's a tension I feel like
I'm persuaded or at least partially
persuaded by the crypto bull case as
a long-term part of a portfolio that's
trying to balance things out in an
inflationary environment. I think the
signaling argument you made is good, but
the savings account argument I'm not
sold on.
>> Well, savings I don't think most people
look at their savings account as they're
worried on a they're not using the
savings account for 1 week, 3 week, 6
month, you know, time period, right?
Most people are looking at their savings
as it's money they hope they never have
to touch over long period of time,
right? And so, if you have let's let's
let's say you're a student and you think
that you're going to make a big purchase
in 3 months, you should not take dollars
and put it in Bitcoin, right? Obviously.
It can go up a lot, it can go down a
lot, it can go sideways, etc. I don't
think anyone is advocating for that.
Actually, what you hear most Bitcoiners
say is you should dollar cost average
into Bitcoin and then you should hope to
never touch that for the rest of your
life. It is a true savings account. The
example I always use is if you go to the
country of India, the culture there is
the family basically acquires gold
whether it is in jewelry form or
physical you know, bars, etc. And then
they basically pass that gold down
generation after generation after
generation and you're kind of like, you
know, the black sheep of the family if
you sell the family gold, right? Like if
you're like the third or fourth
generation you sell the family gold, you
you you you know,
your your great-grandfather rolls over
in his grave type thing. If you look at
America, look at the great families that
have been building wealth over the last
50, 60 years. They did it with real
estate. Right? Somebody at some point
started to buy real estate and they
passed it down generation to generation
to generation.
I now believe that Bitcoin is for the
next generation that new thing. And so I
always talk about, you know, home
affordability in America is horrendous.
If you are a young person and you want
to store value over the your lifetime,
the generation before you or two
generations before you, they bought a
home. Well, you actually do not have
enough money for the down payment, you
cannot afford the mortgage payments, and
you literally cannot afford the home.
Bitcoin provides the savings account
because ultimately, if you are able to
dollar cost average into it and leave it
there over a very long period of time,
it is one of the best performing assets
in the world, if not the best performing
asset. And so
>> But do you think
Uh
Well, put it this way.
From From that argument, it seems like
I guess this is just what you're
arguing. Bitcoin is just, you know, a
completely different class than
almost everything else in the
cryptocurrency terrain.
>> It's completely
>> you're saying?
>> Yeah.
>> [clears throat]
>> I mean, cuz look, most of the other
stuff, it's no different than the stock
market, right? They all have kind of
different bells and whistles, they all
have different promises, they're serving
different customers, they have a
different monetization strategy, and
they're all trying to differentiate each
other. And they're basically trying to
sell whether it's the public, you know,
kind of coin holders or the market on,
"Hey, here's our differentiated product
and this is why we're going to accrue
value over time."
The beauty of Bitcoin is that it doesn't
change. Right? If it If If you If you
kind of broaden
>> Well, not that it doesn't change. The
value of it changes. The system The
system underlying it doesn't change.
>> one core component of my worldview is
that we are entering something I call
the age of automation. And Bitcoin is a
prime example of this. Bitcoin is the
very first currency in the world where
we have automated the central bank. So,
if you think of the Federal Reserve,
right? You, me, and millions of people
around the world hold our breath when
Jerome Powell steps up to the podium.
Are they going to cut rates or are they
not? What's the cost of capital going to
be for the next 30 days?
Bitcoin in 2009 laid out was the
monetary policy for the next 100 plus
years.
And it has done exactly what it said it
was going to do every single day.
The reason why that becomes really
interesting is because now we have an
automated central bank that is immune to
increases in demand. If gold price goes
up, we start trying to dig more gold up
cuz more valuable.
If Bitcoin's demand goes up, nothing
changes in the system. And so
>> But but the sort of built-in assumption
is that
the value of Bitcoin is connected to an
inflationary future, right? And
I can I I think the case for an
inflationary future is a reasonable one
given, as we said at the outset, all of
the
all of the money that um governments
owe. But there are deflationary futures
that you can imagine. There's a
deflationary future linked to population
decline, which it's going to be a big
problem around the world.
>> successful in in the
>> Under under deflationary conditions?
>> Be- because why is deflation happening?
It's because we get a abundance of
certain things. So, for example,
abundance of intelligence, abundance of
robotics. Those things drive deflation.
>> Right. Yeah, there's a world where AI
yields deflation. Yes.
>> In that world,
where do you store value?
If everything is abundant, if with a
snap of your finger you can create
companies and economic products and all
these things, where do you store value?
Scarcity.
As we head into the AI future that I
think a lot of people uh now are
starting to recognize,
you cannot have analog assets that end
up being as valuable because what we're
starting to realize is a lot of those
things are not going to last.
We now have these digital versions of
them that are destroying what we
previously thought were hard assets or,
you know, productive companies, etc.
And so, again, it it's very unique, and
I think this is why people have such a
hard time understanding Bitcoin is
usually
you do not have an asset that can
benefit from inflation and deflation.
But if you go and you look in the Iran
war
if I had told you before the war kicked
off
the war's going to happen. We are going
to bomb this country. What do you expect
to happen? Most people would say oil's
going to spike. Right. Stocks will
rally. And bonds will rally, and gold
will rally. Because we're going to have
to print a bunch of money. Inflation is
coming. All these things.
The war kicked off, and what happened?
Oil spiked, so people would have been
right on that. Stocks, bonds, and gold
all sold off.
Bitcoin did not. Why is that?
Because again, it goes back to it is a
scarce, digital, non-sovereign, neutral
asset. And in times of uncertainty in
times of chaos that's what you want as
an investor in the digital world.
>> In times of chaos, but that's different
from
times of deflation. So, to I
>> Well, that is a couple There's a
>> The The
>> is chaos. We're living through it right
now.
>> That's
That's I guess
one one point on deflation. I want to
come back to chaos and global politics
in a minute. One point on deflation,
which is again my sort of, you know
literal-minded, real-world brain, right?
It seems to me that under conditions of
deflation
what holds value are
valuable assets that have value in and
of themselves for being scarce, right?
Meaning something like land, you know,
beachfront property, right? In the AI
future where, you know, the the ability
you can build a factory in a day, what
whatever utopian scenario you want to
you want to spin, it's just a lot harder
to create the Hamptons or the coast of
Maine from scratch.
But those things have value not just
because they're scarce, but because
people want them. People want to be in
the Hamptons, right? People want to be
on the coast of Maine, at least in the
summer. But people don't want Bitcoin
for its own sake. And again, this is
where it's not beautiful, right? I mean,
it's beautiful to you, but it's not
gold, right? People want Bitcoin
because it is a hedge against inflation,
right? That's what they want. It's not
like, oh, you own Bitcoin and but take
your argument that you just used. Yeah.
>> Hamptons
>> Yep.
>> Maine
>> It's very hard to make more.
>> Yes.
>> But we've done it. We're literally
sitting in Manhattan. We've created more
land. Not a lot, but we've created more
land.
>> you can. And people will. Nova Scotia
will be
>> The one thing in the world that cannot
be created more of is Bitcoin. So, the
exact argument you're making, I
completely agree, but that is why
Bitcoin Bitcoin is the hottest product
in the world for rich people right now.
Let's use BlackRock as an example.
BlackRock has transformed themselves
from a traditional finance company to a
Bitcoin company over the last 3 years.
The reason why that's important is
they're not going and telling a bunch of
hedge funds, "Hey, come and buy this
exclusively."
They also are distributing this product
to everyday Americans that are buying
this asset.
And so, it feeds back into this idea of
in a deflationary environment,
what do you need if everything becomes
abundant? You need scarcity.
>> [snorts]
>> So, if you were to create like a 2x2
chart,
assets that are scarce and digital,
there's only one.
And that is Bitcoin. And so, people are
coming to Bitcoin for different reasons.
Half of or the sell-off of Bitcoin is a
bunch of people saying, "Hey, inflation
I was holding this for inflation.
Inflation's not coming."
>> But if you're right, if you're right,
right?
Then then it should be the case that
over time Bitcoin becomes less volatile.
You know, it it would have its ups and
downs, but as people realize that
it's good for inflation and good for
deflation, and the only thing that's bad
for it maybe is stability, then the
volatility should diminish, right?
>> All we need for Bitcoin to fail in the
world
is actually to have a static world.
>> Right.
>> That that is the worst case for Bitcoin,
because that means that we don't have
inflation and we don't have deflation.
>> Okay, so let's now let's talk about the
institutions that are invested in, if
not a static world, at least a stable
world, which is governments.
What are the politics of Bitcoin? How
should governments be approaching the
asset?
>> Bitcoin did the politics what it's done
to hundreds of millions of people around
the world. It eventually made them cry
uncle.
That's what happened, right?
Bitcoin has never changed. It did not
matter if governments were going to ban
it, not ban it, we're going to embrace
it, hold it, buy it, sell it, tax
people. It It just Bitcoin did not care.
It just continued to produce block after
block after block of transactions.
Politicians changed their mind on
Bitcoin. Why did they do that? Because
they realized that their constituents
wanted this.
And I have this fundamental belief that
although sometimes it is not as clear,
there's not this like, you know, always
um kind of bright picture.
The will of the people is eventually
heard. And sometimes it takes a long
time for that to happen, but ultimately
in the United States, we now have
Republicans and Democrats who agree this
stuff is good. And so the politics of
Bitcoin now is
almost every single politician
recognizes this thing's not going away,
and if I don't support it, I may not be
in the seat in the next election.
>> So, if it doesn't really matter for
Bitcoin what
governments do, is the kind of
regulation that Congress is considering
for crypto good or bad?
>> I don't think it really matters. I think
that these assets are going to be
successful regardless. And if you look,
they went from zero to three trillion
without any of the rules there. Really
what these rules are designed for
is they're not rules for crypto, they're
rules for everyone on how they can
interact with crypto. So, they're rules
for the banks. What can the banks do?
What can they not do? What can the
politicians do or not do? What can other
types of companies or organizations do
with crypto?
But crypto itself is not really
changing. And if you look, a lot of the
debates take yield on stable coins.
It's not so much about is there yield on
stable coins as much as it is who should
be allowed to offer yield on stable
coins.
Because banks can offer yield.
But if you're not a bank and you try to
do that, then they want to come after
you and say, "Hey, it's a security and
there's all these rules and regulations,
etc."
And so the crypto companies are fighting
very hard to say why do the banks get a
monopoly on doing this? It is better for
the consumer if we can offer them yield.
It's a competition in the market between
companies.
And so to me again, it it it doesn't
matter. Like the product will be adopted
by the end consumer. The difference
based on legislation is just where are
they going to get it from?
>> But what does it mean to actually build
policy? What are the What are the wise
policy choices? Like
>> Why do we need any policy?
>> Well, if you're giving advice to
ordinary investors, you can give advice
to government officials as well. Is
there an ideal regulatory framework for
Bitcoin? No, it doesn't need one, right?
>> Doesn't need one. I always remind
people, look, the law still apply. If
you commit fraud, then you committed
fraud, you should go and
you know, get in trouble, right? If you
you know, steal from somebody, that's
theft and you should get in trouble for
that stuff. So there there there's no
kind of like there's no rules.
But I don't think that there's any
policy that has been created around
Bitcoin that anyone says is different
today than it was 15 years ago. Now,
there will be some regulators who say,
"Hey, we classified the asset not as a
security as a commodity and right?" But
that's not a policy around Bitcoin.
That's more so how do these regulatory
bodies look at who who you know, gets to
look at the markets and look at the
players and have people come in and
answer to them, etc.
But there is no Bitcoin policy.
Right? And then sure, some people may
say, "Oh, we have a strategic Bitcoin
reserve or whatever."
>> Well, that's Well, so that's what that
So, that would be one example. Should it
>> that's not a Bitcoin policy. That's a
government policy like a balance sheet
policy.
>> Right. But, but it Well, it's a policy
of how governments should approach
Bitcoin. So, should governments treat
Bitcoin basically as a store of value
that, you know, enhances the balance
sheets of governments over the long
term? That's That's basically what your
argument implies, right?
>> If it's good for individuals, then it's
good for organizations, right?
Organizations are just made up of
individuals. And so, whether it's a
government, a corporation, etc., if you
have an asset that continues to
appreciate not depreciate purchasing
power over long period of time,
if you have a balance sheet, if you have
economic value that you want to protect,
the Again, Bitcoin is not the only asset
that you can go and look at, right?
There's real estate, there's gold,
there's all sorts. United States
government's actually pretty
diversified, right? We have We own a lot
of these different We have a lot of
gold, right? We We actually have a lot
of buildings, that type of stuff.
>> They say we have a lot of gold, but I
haven't been inside Fort Knox.
>> I don't want to get into the debate
[laughter] about whether it's still
there.
It's like the moon landing, depending on
who you ask, right? There's different
different approach.
>> Well, this We're We're moon landing
believers on this. There's a lot of
paranoia on this show, but not about
that. But, okay. But, so it is it's an
asset that governments should use to
diversify their own portfolios. What I
mean, what do you make of the Trump
administration's general crypto
approach?
>> Before we answer that question, the
other thing I would say though is I
think that you're seeing governments
around the world say, "Wait a second,
it's not just a store of value though,
right?" There's been a number of Gulf
states who have done partnerships with
publicly traded mining businesses. They
want to monetize their energy. They
realize that it is more efficient and
more profitable to monetize the energy
by mining Bitcoin rather than, you know,
transporting it somewhere, etc. Iran
obviously wants to get paid in Bitcoin.
We've seen a lot of countries, you know,
there's nefarious use cases, North
Korea, many others are actually trying
to hack the fund things, etc. So, I
think that store of value is the easy
one that we usually all kind of are are
attracted to.
In the United States, I think what
you're watching is you're watching uh a
very unique situation. You have an
administration that frankly
across almost the entire cabinet, they
were outcast who had tons of pressure
both legal, regulatory, etc. And so,
they have this personal experience in a
way that most Americans don't have
frankly, right? Um I personally have
dealt with numerous financial
institutions to various degrees whether
refusing bank accounts, shutting down,
you know, brokerage accounts, changing
the rules, doing all these things. I've
had many companies I've invested in who
have been debanked, etc. I don't think
people quite understand what it means to
have a bank say, "You cannot have a bank
account." It it it is a experience that
in the American way of life is so
foreign to us because we're used to not
getting refused service at, you know,
institutions that we almost think of as
like public goods in terms of the access
to the banking system.
When you put somebody through that,
right, in terms of the president or the
cabinet, etc. and they come from that
perspective, they naturally are going to
look for things that are outside of the
system. But, their
approach, and we're talking both about
Trump administration policy and also
about Trump family business, right? has
not been
what I think is the approach that you've
argued for throughout this conversation,
which is to focus on Bitcoin as a unique
asset among cryptocurrencies. The Trump
Trump administration and the Trump
family have sort of spread their crypto
interests around and encompassed, you
know,
everything all the way to meme coins
that frankly just sort of look like
uh speculation, pump and dump schemes,
and so on, right? So, they're they're
all over the map. When you look at that,
do you think this is good for the part
of crypto that you really believe in or
do you think that like the effect of the
Trump era is for most people to just
think of crypto as a kind of like Las
Vegas, you know, kind of casino game.
Where Where do you Where What do you
think the effect is?
>> My understanding of what they've done um
and I'm going to talk uh more broadly
about the entire administration, but
obviously Trump family as well.
Um They're involved in Bitcoin, they're
involved in stable coins, and then
they're involved in the meme coins,
right? So, let's start with Bitcoin.
They basically uh created a strategic
Bitcoin reserve um and then uh I think
Eric and Don Jr. are involved in a
company American Bitcoin where they mine
Bitcoin, right? So, they've got a very
kind of deep uh I think understanding,
belief in Bitcoin itself.
>> And you think that's very smart.
>> Yes, obviously. I think generally that
that that's a good idea. Um and you
know, there's always the the murky
waters of like whenever politicians are
doing anything, everyone gets all up in
arms, but like I think forget for a
second it's them. Like that's a very
smart strategy, uh has a lot of value at
the end of that road. The second thing
is the stablecoin.
The critiques that I hear of World
Liberty uh financial, I don't hear
anyone critiquing what they're doing in
terms of the technology, the stable
coins, the fact that, you know, the
market wants these things, the success
of it, etc. So, those two things to me
are are like no-brainer type stuff.
The third one
>> Except for the question of whether there
is inherent corruption involved in
>> Technology-wise, I don't think there's
any questions. Uh maybe
business-development-wise, that I That's
where I see the critiques.
>> [snorts]
>> In the meme coin thing, I think that
there's two things that I I've um as
I've looked into, you know, kind of how
how I think about this.
Warren Buffett
is the original finance influencer.
The Berkshire Hathaway stock price
has value. 95% of that value is because
they own great businesses with cash flow
and productive assets and, you know, all
the things that I think people
understand.
Maybe 5% is because Buffett's in charge.
And the reason we know that is cuz when
he stepped down, it sold off 5%.
>> Right.
>> Right? So, there was like a Buffett
premium, right? I call Buffett meme, but
Buffett premium that's assigned to of
Berkshire Hathaway.
The Trump meme coin was basically well
0% company and just 100% meme, right? So
like that that transition people can
argue whether that's a good or bad
thing, but I think it's actually been
happening now for a number of decades
that we've just been moving more and
more towards this like premium around
personalities and brand etc. On top of
companies that
>> Right. Well, it seems like a bad it
seems like a bad thing for people who
think it's a great idea to just buy
something whose only value is in the
meme. If you buy, you know, a Milani or
a DJT or whatever meme coin, it's purely
an investment in vibes around Donald
Trump.
>> So Now, let's go to the second way that
I look at this is I've looked into I
know some of the people who are are
involved in all of this. Basically, what
my understanding is is that there's a
licensing deal where Trump licenses
names on all kinds of products, right?
He's He's been doing it on hotels
>> Yeah, for a long a long time.
>> Yes. You probably even know more than I
know about all that, but this was a
digital product that they could go and
and do.
Now, from that standpoint, what is
unique about this digital product? If
they were selling calendars or something
like that, right? We would never Okay,
he's selling stuff. Well, we'll see what
happens. But there's a ticker attached
to it that has a a market price and that
market price can go up a lot and go down
a lot. And people are putting their
money in and so they
are buying cuz they think it's going to
go up a lot or they think it's going to
go down.
That's very unique. We we've never
really seen that in the past, right?
Now, if you compare that to maybe a
couple of other things that happened in
society. Recently, a Pokémon card sold
for $16 million. And when people
And when people first see that, they
say, "That's insane. Why how does a
Pokémon card worth $16 million?"
Whatever.
Again, I think it goes back to as a
society, we are moving towards this
volatility type generation. People are
seeking these things out.
>> I think I think that's right. I I think
you can absolutely see Trump meme coins
as like Beanie Babies for people who
love Donald Trump.
>> But you know, the only way it's got a
ticker.
>> Yeah, but it's one, it's unwise to
invest in Beanie Babies, I think, as
someone who lived through that era and
owned a lot I was not a Beanie Baby
investor. I bought them legitimately, or
my family did, cuz I had a baby sister
who liked them. But
we wanted them for the actual value,
little stuffed animals, right? And
>> But you didn't think you were going to
go and resell them on eBay or anything.
>> and they but they retained they retained
that value, right? In a way that DJT
meme coin, if Trump's brand goes to
zero, would not. But so one, I think
it's unwise for people to invest in
those things. Two,
I just I when I observe sort of the
crypto world over the last year and a
half,
it just seems to me that it's not just
the DJT meme coin that's bound up in
Trump's political fortunes. It's the
entire world of crypto, and I think it
includes Bitcoin, too. I think the
Bitcoin rise and crash is not just about
the fundamental market forces that
you're describing. It's also that, you
know, people are like, Trump's doing
well, Trump is, you know, all in on
crypto, and uh oh wait, oh Trump's
approval ratings are going down. Oh
wait, you know, bad things are happening
in the administration. I'm going to sell
my DJT meme coin, but I'm also going to
sell bit- Bitcoin, too.
And what do you think about that? Do you
think that's what's going on?
>> it's harder to prove, right? Doesn't
mean it's wrong, just means it's really
hard to prove. And if you look at, you
know, bit- Bitcoin is very unique in
that it's it's hyper apolitical, right?
It has been successful under Republican
and Democrat presidents and
administrations. It has done very well
uh under Donald Trump, and also at times
has done very bad under Donald Trump.
Same thing with Joe Biden, right? If you
go and you look when Biden first came
into office, it crashed, but I don't
think that had anything to do with
Biden. I think it had to do with the
Federal Reserve hiking interest rates.
And so I I think that in a weird way, um
you can think of crypto many people I
think think of crypto as politics is
influencing crypto. I think the opposite
is true. I think crypto is influencing
politics. And I think that's why you
see, you know, if you're running for
president of the United States and you
need to go and get votes, what do you
do? You start picking groups. Okay, I'm
going to go to libertarians, right? I'm
going to get libertarians to vote for
me. I'm going to go get the Bitcoin
people. They're I like those Bitcoin
folks.
One of the things that you know, if if
the president was sitting here right
now, what I would tell him is one of the
funniest things he's ever said. I don't
know if you remember when Elon Musk
brought the Teslas to the White House. I
do remember that.
>> Yes.
>> everything is computer.
>> That's beautiful.
This is a different panel that I've had.
Everything's computer.
>> That's
>> I always remind people
>> one of the one of the best.
>> I don't know if I don't know how he's 78
90 79 years old whatever whatever he is.
I don't think he's the one who's like
designing the crypto projects,
>> [laughter]
>> right? If you think everything is
computer. And so it's this weird dynamic
of you know, look, we want our leaders
to be focused on representing
constituents and doing what's best for
our country and and for our citizens,
right? And I think that that's an
important piece. Frankly, a lot of this
other stuff is distractions. And I think
that's true of presidents both whether
it's Biden or Trump all the way down to
staffers. You look at the congressional
stock buying. Like I think the American
people in general don't like this stuff.
But I do think that it's not because
politicians are influencing crypto as
much as crypto is influencing the
politicians.
>> Isn't there a way though in which just
the narrative of crypto that you're
describing and the real world use cases
mean that
there is a way in which it's a it's a
bet against America, against the
American empire as we've known it. I
just just it seems like there's just
multiple ways
this is true. Number one, to invest in
Bitcoin makes sense if you assume we're
you know, in in your own scenario, we're
headed for tons of inflation or tons of
deflation, right? If the dollar was
relatively stable and we were in sort of
the Goldilocks low inflation zone, then
Bitcoin would be less valuable.
Similarly, Bitcoin is, you know, is
useful, and so are I mean, even even
stable coins, as I understand it, which
are, you know, are pegged to the dollar,
are very useful as means of evading the
American government's control of the
global financial system. That's part of
why Iran wants to be paid in crypto.
It's, you know, you mentioned North
Korea. It's just very easy to see a
future where
the spread and use of these things
becomes part of the breakdown of a
system in which
the US dollar has this kind of global
dominance. And and it seems like that
creates weird incentives for US
politicians, right? You're betting on an
asset that is associated with the
weakening of US power and that
appreciates as
the fundamental assets of American
power, starting with the dollar, worsen,
right?
>> So, there's a couple things in here. The
first thing, um, one of my favorite
parts about Bitcoin is it is basically
the American values and ethos digitized
into money. So, what is the American
ethos and values? Basically, it is power
to the individual person. It is their
ability to have prosperity, security, to
basically don't tread on me, you know,
type mentality, kind of a libertarian
type small government, etc. And so, it's
returning power back to the individual.
I think that's a core American
>> I I and I I think that the the core
people who adopted Bitcoin
absolutely came out of that very
American libertarian tradition. I I know
I knew some of them from the start, you
know.
>> of how the American government works, at
the end of the day, Bitcoin is free
speech.
It is software code, and it is the
ability to express that in the market,
which is a very kind of core American
ethos.
So, I think that's one core component.
The second thing is, America has more
power globally than it's ever had
because of crypto, mainly stablecoins.
The stablecoins have significantly
increased American dominance, especially
with the dollar, and it has driven that
dollar hegemony in a way that
traditional fiat currencies just never
could do. And so in in a crazy way, what
we're watching is we're actually I I
used to believe, and maybe it's
something I've changed my mind on, I
used to believe that the dollar and
Bitcoin were competing with each other.
And so for Bitcoin to win, that meant
the dollar had to not win.
>> Yes.
>> Now what I understand and what I see in
the data is that actually they are
rising together. The loser in the rise
of Bitcoin and the dollar are all of the
weak fiat currencies. Because if you
come back to
you have a checking account, you have a
savings account, and you have a
brokerage account. The dollar goes in
your checking account, Bitcoin goes in
your savings account, and then you'll
have brokerage opportunities. And the
reason why this is now possible is
because historically, it has been nearly
impossible with immense friction
to switch between currencies and assets.
So if you hold dollars and you're going
to Mexico, and you need pesos, you have
to go to a money changer.
And that money changer, not only do you
physically have to go there, they rip
you off. Now I can change between
currencies with a tap of my phone.
And so what you do is you move from a
world where people only have one
currency to now we actually have
currencies that are built for different
use cases. I spend my dollars, I save my
Bitcoin. Never been possible in the
world until these digital technologies,
and that's what we see people doing now.
>> But that can't that that happy
relationship
I think in your own account can't go on
forever, right? You can have a period
because in the long run, either the
dollar weakens
and Bitcoin increases, or the dollar
doesn't weaken as much as you expected
to, and then Bitcoin doesn't doesn't do
as well, right? I I think there there is
some like okay, yes, you can have a
world where the dollar is inflationary
but not as inflationary as all the other
fiat currencies. So, over time
crypto dollars, stable coins, mean that
the dollar replaces all those other fiat
currencies. And so, the dollar wins for
a while, but then eventually there's a
point where the dollar is the currency
that's left and it's inflationary and
it's ever more inflationary and then
Bitcoin starts winning and the dollar
starts losing, right?
>> Starting to sound more and more like a
Bitcoin maximalist.
>> I Right, right. [laughter] No, no, but I
but Right, but but that is but that is
but I don't think that's the next 20
years, right? I think that that is over
a very long period of time.
>> But, that is then a world where Bitcoin
does gain at the expense of the dollar
and US power and influence.
>> The one thing that I will say is in that
scenario you described, which I actually
think is fairly um
high probability.
Dollars become more sought after, right?
They're losing value, but I don't want
my local currency in XYZ country, I want
dollars. So, I now have access, so
that's good for the United States.
Bitcoin is rising as this global store
of value. So, I have dollars and Bitcoin
rising, everything else falling to the
side. And that's actually what we've
been seeing, right? Over the last, you
know, 5 years or so. And so, I I think
that that trend will continue. I think
that that is a very uh astute
observation.
At some point, the dollar basically gets
inflated away so much that it becomes,
you know, not valuable.
Again, I don't think that's 20 years
from now. I think that's pretty far out
in the uh in the future. I don't think
the US hits like a Zimbabwe-style,
you know, hyperinflation, but it could
happen.
But, in that scenario, which the United
States, regardless of Bitcoin success or
not, is already headed towards that,
right? Because of our lack of uh fiscal
and monetary discipline.
What are we going to use?
Bitcoin becomes really important for
Americans, for our government, for our
citizens, for etc.
>> Yeah, I mean, I guess I'm thinking, you
know, there's a you know, a one very
famous crypto booster, Balaji
Srinivasan, right? When he talks about
crypto, it sounds like he's starting
from the place you start, where crypto
is sort of an expression of you know,
the the American spirit and sort of the
libertarian impulse, but in his view,
it's like a way for that to survive the
collapse of America itself, right? It's
like America's going down, but we will
have this kind of virtual version of
America around the world that anyone can
participate in through you know, through
through crypto.
>> Mhm.
>> But you think America's sticking around.
>> Balaji's a very good friend of mine. I
think very highly. He's incredibly intel
Probably the single smartest person in
the
>> to You don't have to flatter him. Just
Just Just
>> not going to listen. He he's not the
biggest fan of New York Times, so he
probably not going to listen to you.
>> I've I've heard, right? I've heard.
Yeah. Yeah. Yep.
>> Uh which which by the way is good cuz I
think that ultimately there's a
competition of of thought there. But the
um the part that I think maybe where him
and I disagree is
the United States of America in a weird
way is the strongest it's ever been and
it's the weakest it's ever been.
And you talked with uh Peter Thiel. I
saw you did an episode with him. And one
of the ideas that I've always really
liked that he has is two things can be
true at the same time that are usually
counterintuitive. So, the example that
he'll use sometimes is that you can be
both rich and poor at the same time. How
do How does that happen? You can be cash
poor, but if you're like a founder of a
startup, you could be paper rich. Same
time, two things are true.
Well, if you think about America, like
we have the strongest military that
we've ever had that's ever been created
in human history. At the same time, we
have people who literally can't afford
groceries and gas.
We are
the richest country in the world, yet
some people are struggling. Two things
are true at the exact same time. And so,
you get in this weird dynamic where
again, it's I always get very nervous
when we say like it's black and white,
you know, America is crumbling or
America is succeeding. And so, I go back
to if you said to me, I get a wave of
one magic wand and I get to change one
thing about this country that would have
the most profound impact on the country.
The single thing I would do is I would
teach financial education to young
people. And the only thing that you need
to just sear into their mind,
if you hold cash,
you fall behind. If you invest in
whatever you want, whether it's stocks,
bonds, whatever.
>> Right.
>> Then you will have a much better shot.
>> But especially in Bitcoin. All right.
I think at the very least the last part
is definitely good advice and so it's a
good place to end. Anthony Pompliano,
thank you so much for joining me.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> [music]
[music]